---
layout: default
title: "Mike Shaw: Beyond brightfield: hybrid optical and computational methods for high-information-content biomedical microscopy"
date: 2025-09-25
speaker: "Mike Shaw (UCL)"
---

Thursday, September 25, 12:00–13:00 
in Bio-NG08

## Abstract
Light microscopy is arguably the most widely used method for investigating the properties of cells and tissues across the health and life sciences, owing largely to its accessibility and ability to image specimens in a near-native state. Over the past two to three decades, major advances—particularly the advent of super-resolution fluorescence microscopy—have greatly extended the reach of the light microscope. However, low volumetric imaging speeds, low image information capacity, and a reliance on exogenous chemical staining still limit the capacity of optical methods to capture biological image information. Overcoming these barriers presents new opportunities for fundamental research, disease diagnosis, and the development and testing of new therapeutics.
In this talk, I will introduce our work at UCL to develop hybrid computational imaging techniques for improved light microscopy, with a focus on our recent efforts to combine LED array (Fourier ptychographic) microscopy and conditional generative adversarial networks for stain-free digital pathology.

## Speaker Bio
Mike is a Principal Research Fellow in the Department of Computer Science at University College London and the Science Area Leader of the Biometrology Group at the National Physical Laboratory (the UK’s National Metrology Institute). A physicist by background,
 he has spent his career developing computational biophotonics methods—including super-resolution fluorescence microscopy and quantitative phase imaging—to visualise and quantify the properties of biological systems and processes, from proteins to multicellular
 model systems and tissue biopsies. His current research focuses on multi-modal and correlative imaging techniques and optical ptychographic microscopy for label-free digital pathology.

## Recording
TBA
